2540 RPCN Cloud docs (#32)
redpanda-data/cloud-docs: modules/develop/pages/connect/connect-quickstart.adoc

= Redpanda Connect Quickstart
:description: Learn how to quickly start building data pipelines with Redpanda Connect in Redpanda Cloud.

Learn how to build, run, and update a data pipeline on a Redpanda Cloud cluster using Redpanda Connect.

This quickstart introduces you to Redpanda Connect for Redpanda Cloud. Using a single YAML configuration file, you can quickly build streaming data pipelines from scratch. No third-party connectors are required. 

include::develop:partial$availability-message.adoc[]

== Prerequisites

> A Redpanda Cloud account for BYOC or Serverless. If you haven't got an account already, https://redpanda.com/try-redpanda/cloud-trial[sign up for a free trial^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Redpanda Cloud account for BYOC or Serverless. If you don't already have an account, https://redpanda.com/try-redpanda/cloud-trial[sign up for a free trial^].
```

. Click **Create**. Your pipeline details are displayed and the pipeline state changes from **Starting** to **Running**. If you don’t see this state change, refresh your page.
+
Redpanda Connect starts to ingest, process, and write transformed email messages to the **processed-emails** topic.
. After a few seconds, select the pipeline and click **Stop**.

== Explore the processed data and logs

Take a look at the data your pipeline has already processed, and the logs that are available for troubleshooting.

To see the pipeline output:

. Go to the **Topics** page and select the **processed-emails** topic.
. Select any message to see the email message fields generated by the pipeline `input`, along with a `title` field added by the `mutation` processor. All messages have the following structure:

+
[source,json]
----
{
    "content": "Aliquam quidem tempore expedita debitis ab. Officiis optio eveniet ab magni commodi...",
    "id": "35522c66-6fcd-47da-b97b-857b983477d1",
    "title": "PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL",
    "user": {
        "email": "oCcXPTh@RrKHZRQ.info",
        "name": "King Francis Torphy"
    }
}
----

To view the logs:

> . Go back to the **Connectors** page on your cluster and select the **emailprocessor-pipeline**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Return to the **Connectors** page on your cluster and select the **emailprocessor-pipeline**.
```

Author: Updated.
